UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java

The UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java is a fast, powerful, user-friendly, and
completely free Java library for communicating with LDAP directory servers. It
offers better performance, better ease of use, and more features than other
Java-based LDAP APIs. It is developed by Ping Identity Corporation is actively
being maintained and enhanced as a critical component of Ping Identity client
and server software.

The UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java is free to use and redistribute in open source
or proprietary applications under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0,
which is a very permissive OSI-approved open source license.  For legacy
purposes, the software is also available under the terms of the GNU GPLv2 or
LGPLv2.1 licenses, or the not-open-source-but-still-free-to-use UnboundID Free
Use License.

The LDAP SDK does not have any third-party dependencies beyond a Java 7 or
higher Java Runtime Environment, so a single jar file is all you need to add
top-notch LDAP support to your Java application. It can also be used in
conjunction with most other JVM-based languages, as well as on the Android
mobile platform.

The full documentation for the LDAP SDK is available online at
https://docs.ldap.com/ldap-sdk/docs/index.html. The API documentation (aka
JavaDoc) for the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java is available at
https://docs.ldap.com/ldap-sdk/docs/javadoc/index.html. The LDAP.com website
also has a lot of useful information about LDAP and directory services.



Advantages of the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java

Some of the key advantages of the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java include:

* Full support for the LDAPv3 protocol as of the most recent specification
  update, including all operation types, intermediate response messages, the
  increment modification extension, and absolute true/false filters.

* Built-in support for a wide range of official and de facto standard protocol
  extensions, including controls, extended operations, and SASL mechanisms. The
  LDAP SDK also includes APIs for developing support for any custom protocol
  extensions that you may need but aren't included as part of the LDAP SDK.

* A very convenient and user-friendly API that reduces the amount of code you
  need to write in order to perform the desired operations.

* A number of security-related features to help simplify secure communication
  and ensure that all interaction with LDAP servers and data remains safe and
  available to only properly-authorized users.

* Powerful and flexible connection pooling, load balancing, and failover
  support to help ensure that your application keeps working flawlessly even if
  one or more of the directory servers becomes unavailable.

* A simple yet powerful persistence framework that allows you to interact with
  LDAP entries as if they were Java objects. The persistence framework works
  with your existing schema and directory data without any changes so that it
  remains compatible with other applications that may need to access it.

* Enhanced support for a number of special entry types, including the root DSE,
  subschema subentries, and changelog entries.

* Support for a number of related APIs, including reading and writing LDIF
  entries and change records (including parallelized encoding and decoding for
  maximum performance), base64 encoding and decoding, and ASN.1 BER encoding
  and decoding. There are also APIs to simplify the creation of LDAP-enabled
  command-line tools.

* Support for simplifying LDAP-based testing. The LDAP SDK includes an
  in-memory directory server is available to allow you easily create one or
  more simple LDAPv3-compliant servers to use in your testing frameworks. It
  also provides a set of utility methods for making assertions about the
  content stored in an LDAP directory server.

* The LDAP SDK is provided as a single self-contained jar file with no
  dependencies on anything outside of Java SE version 7 or later.



How To Get the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java

Packaged releases of the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java are available for download
from GitHub at https://github.com/pingidentity/ldapsdk/releases and from
SourceForge at https://sourceforge.net/projects/ldap-sdk/files/.

If you prefer to use the Maven tool to manage your library dependencies, then
you can get the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java in the Maven Central Repository at
https://search.maven.org/#search%7Cgav%7C1%7Cg%3A%22com.unboundid%22%20AND%20a%3A%22unboundid-ldapsdk%22
with a GroupId of "com.unboundid" and an ArtifactId of "unboundid-ldapsdk".

If you want to check out and build the LDAP SDK from source, then you can do
that with the following git command:

    git clone https://github.com/pingidentity/ldapsdk.git

If you prefer subversion, you can instead use the command:

    svn checkout https://github.com/pingidentity/ldapsdk/trunk ldapsdk-svn

Once the code has been checked out, you can build the LDAP SDK by running the
build.sh shell script on UNIX-based systems or build.bat batch file on Windows.
Once the build has completed, the zip file containing the packaged LDAP SDK may
be found in the build/package directory.



How To Get Help with the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java

If you run into a problem when using the LDAP SDK and you can't figure it out
from the documentation, then there are a few ways that you can get help:

* For bug reports and feature requests, use the GitHub issue tracker at
  https://github.com/pingidentity/ldapsdk/issues.

* For questions, feedback, and other discussions, use the online discussion
  forum at http://sourceforge.net/p/ldap-sdk/discussion/ or the
  ldap-sdk-discuss@lists.sourceforge.net mailing list. See
  https://sourceforge.net/p/ldap-sdk/mailman/ldap-sdk-discuss/ for more
  information about this mailing list, including an archive and information
  about how to subscribe.

* If you'd rather not have the communication in public, send an email message
  to ldapsdk-support@pingidentity.com.

* If you have a support contract with Ping Identity, you may get assistance
  with the LDAP SDK in the same way that you get support for other Ping
  Identity products. Contact ldapsdk-support@pingidentity.com for more
  information about obtaining a support contract for the LDAP SDK.



Contributing to the UnboundID LDAP SDK for Java

Ping Identity does not accept third-party code submissions. However, there are
other ways that you can help, including submitting bug reports and feature
requests. See the CONTRIBUTING.md file for additional information.
