





                                               Jeff Hodges, Oblix Inc.
INTERNET-DRAFT                     RL "Bob" Morgan, Univ of Washington
Intended Category:                                          June, 2000
  Standards Track
Updates: 2251, 2252, 2253, 2254,
  2255, 2256, 2829, 2830


              Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3):
                        Applicability Statement
                    <draft-hodges-ldapv3-as-00.txt>



                        Status of this Document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Comments and suggestions on this document are encouraged.  Comments on
this document should be sent to the LDAPEXT working group discussion
list:
                       ietf-ldapext@netscape.com

This document expires in January 2001.

Abstract

The specification for the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol version
3 (LDAPv3) nominally comprises eight separte RFCs which were issued in
two distinct subsets at separate times (RFCs 2251..2256 first, then RFCs
2229 and 2830 following later), but this has never been formally stated.
Additionally, RFCs 2251..2256 each are embellished with an "IESG Note"



Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 1]

I-D     LDAPv3: Applicability Statement                        June 2000


warning implementors and deployers of potential interoperability prob-
lems due to the lack of a specification of mandatory-to-implement
authentication mechanism(s). This document corrects both situations by
explicitly specifying the set of RFCs comprising LDAPv3 and rescinding
the "IESG Note" due to the specification of mandatory-to-implement
authentication mechanisms in RFC 2829.

1.  Conventions Used in this Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [ReqsKeywords].

2.  Specification of LDAPv3

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol version 3 (LDAPv3) is speci-
fied by this set of RFCs: 2251, 2252, 2253, 2254, 2255, 2256, 2829, 2830
[1..8]. The term "LDAPv3" MAY be used to informally refer to the proto-
col specified by this set of RFCs.

   [question: Should RFC 2849..

    <URL:ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/authors/rfc2849.txt>

    ..also be included in the "LDAPv3" definition?]

Other RFCs (and perhaps Internet-Drafts) MAY specify extensions to
LDAPv3.  Nomenclature denoting such combinations of LDAPv3-plus-
extension(s) is not defined at this time.


3.  Rescindment of the "IESG Note" from RFCs 2251..2256

The IESG approved publishing RFCs 2251..2256 with an attendant "IESG
Note" (Note).  The Note begins with..

   This document describes a directory access protocol that provides
   both read and update access.  Update access requires secure authenti-
   cation, but this document does not mandate implementation of any
   satisfactory authentication mechanisms.

The Note ends with this statement..

   Implementors are hereby discouraged from deploying LDAPv3 clients or
   servers which implement the update functionality, until a Proposed
   Standard for mandatory authentication in LDAPv3 has been approved and
   published as an RFC.




Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 2]

I-D     LDAPv3: Applicability Statement                        June 2000


RFC 2829 [7] is the "Proposed Standard for mandatory authentication in
LDAPv3" being called for in the Note. Therefore, the IESG Note on RFCs
2251, 2252, 2253, 2254, 2255, and 2256 is hereby rescinded.

4.  Security Considerations

This document does not directly discuss security, although the context
of the aforementioned "IESG Note" is security-related, as is the res-
cindment of the Note being recommended herein.

Please refer to the referenced documents, especially [7], for further
information concerning LDAPv3 security aspects.

5.  Acknowledgements

The authors thank ...  for their contributions to this document.

6.  References

[1]    M. Wahl, S. Kille and T. Howes, "Lightweight Directory Access
       Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997.

[2]    M. Wahl, A. Coulbeck, T. Howes, and S. Kille, "Lightweight Direc-
       tory Access Protocol (v3): Attribute Syntax Definitions", RFC
       2252, December 1997.

[3]    S. Kille, M. Wahl, and T. Howes, "Lightweight Directory Access
       Protocol (v3): UTF-8 String Representation of Distinguished
       Names", RFC 2253, December 1997.

[4]    T. Howes, "The String Representation of LDAP Search Filters", RFC
       2254, December 1997.

[5]    T. Howes, M. Smith, "The LDAP URL Format", RFC 2255, December
       1997.

[6]    M. Wahl, "A Summary of the X.500(96) User Schema for use with
       LDAPv3", RFC 2256, December 1997.

[7]    M. Wahl, H. Alvestrand, J. Hodges, R. Morgan. "Authentication
       Methods for LDAP", RFC 2829, May 2000.

[8]    J. Hodges, R. Morgan, M. Wahl, "Lightweight Directory Access Pro-
       tocol (v3): Extension for Transport Layer Security", RFC 2830,
       May 2000.

[ReqsKeywords] Scott Bradner. "Key Words for use in RFCs to Indicate
               Requirement Levels". RFC 2119.



Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 3]

I-D     LDAPv3: Applicability Statement                        June 2000


7.  Authors' Addresses

   Jeff Hodges
   Oblix, Inc.
   18922 Forge Drive
   Cupertino, CA 95014
   USA

   Phone: +1-408-861-6656
   EMail: JHodges@oblix.com


   RL "Bob" Morgan
   Computing and Communications
   University of Washington
   Seattle, WA
   USA

   Phone: +1-206-221-3307
   EMail: rlmorgan@washington.edu


                  -----------------------------------

8.  Intellectual Property Rights Notices

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intel-
lectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain to
the implementation or use of the technology described in this document
or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not
be available; neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with
respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made available for
publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for
the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this stan-
dard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.

9.  Copyright Notice and Disclaimer

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.




Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 4]

I-D     LDAPv3: Applicability Statement                        June 2000


   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of develop-
   ing Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights
   defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as
   required to translate it into languages other than English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER-
   CHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


                    -----------------------------------

   This document expires in January 2001.
























Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 5]

