





Application Working Group                                      L. Howard
INTERNET-DRAFT                                             PADL Software
Expires in six months from                                   1 June 2003
Intended Category: Informational



    A Structural Object Class for Arbitrary Auxiliary Object Classes
                   <draft-howard-namedobject-01.txt>



Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

This document is an Internet-Draft. Internet-Drafts are working docu-
ments of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its
working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working docu-
ments as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or made obsolete by other doc-
uments at any time. It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as ref-
erence material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or "work
in progress".

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the 1id-
abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow Directo-
ries on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (PacificRim).

Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Abstract


The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) supports auxiliary
object classes for adding additional attributes to a directory entry.

This document defines a structural object class that may be used when no
other structural object class is available.

1. Background






Howard                                                          [Page 1]





Internet Draft             namedObject schema                1 June 2003


Schema for LDAP directories often define auxiliary object classes that
are intended to be used with a specific structural object class.

For example, the posixGroup object class [RFC2307bis] is an auxiliary
object class that may be used to overlay POSIX group identification on
an existing group of distinguished names.  In this case, it is suggested
that the groupOfUniqueNames object class be used as a structural object
class. However, this may sometimes be inappropriate: that groupOfUnique-
Names requires at least one member may make it impossible to migrate
existing group information. [RFC2307bis] could define a specific struc-
tural object class for this case (say, structuralPosixGroup), but this
would unnecessarily add to the proliferation of redundant schema.

This document defines a structural object class, namedObject, that man-
dates no attributes other than a common name. Arbitrary auxiliary object
classes may be thus associated with entries which have this as a struc-
tural object class.

2. Object Class Definitions


The namedObject object class defines one mandatory attribute, a common
name. The OID arc is iso(1) org(3) dod(6) internet(1) private(4) enter-
prise(1) padl(5322) namedObjectSchema(13) objectClasses(1).

     ( 1.3.6.1.4.1.5322.13.1.1 NAME 'namedObject' SUP top
       STRUCTURAL MAY cn )

Other attributes allowed by auxiliary classes may be used for naming
purposes.

An example entry would be:

     dn: cn=Sample Entry,dc=padl,dc=com
     objectClass: top
     objectClass: namedObject
     cn: Sample Entry

An example entry with an auxiliary class from [RFC2307bis] would be:

     dn: cn=wheel,ou=Groups,dc=padl,dc=com
     objectClass: top
     objectClass: namedObject
     objectClass: posixGroup
     cn: wheel
     gidNumber: 0
     memberUid: root




Howard                                                          [Page 2]





Internet Draft             namedObject schema                1 June 2003


3. Security Considerations


The introduction of this schema element does not impact the security of
the Internet. See [RFC2251] for general LDAP security considerations.

4. IANA Considerations


No IANA assignments are requested.

This document uses the OID 1.3.6.1.4.1.5322.13.1.1 to identity the name-
dObject schema element. This OID was assigned by PADL Software Pty Ltd
under its IANA assigned private enterprise allocation for use in this
specification.

5. References


[RFC2251]
     M. Wahl, T. Howes, S. Kille, "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
     (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997.

[RFC2252]
     Wahl, M., Coulbeck, A., Howes, T., and S. Kille, "Lightweight
     Directory Access Protocol (v3): Attribute Syntax Definitions", RFC
     2252, December 1997.

[RFC2307bis]
     L. Howard, M. Ansari, "An Approach for Using LDAP as a Network
     Information Service", draft-howard-rfc2307bis-02.txt (a work in
     progress).

6. Author's Address

     Luke Howard
     PADL Software Pty. Ltd.
     PO Box 59
     Central Park Vic 3145
     Australia
     EMail: lukeh@padl.com

7. Full Copyright Statement


Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.





Howard                                                          [Page 3]





Internet Draft             namedObject schema                1 June 2003


This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to oth-
ers, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and dis-
tributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided
that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all
such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself may not
be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice or ref-
erences to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations, except
as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in which case
the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process
must be followed, or as required to translate it into languages other
than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.





























Howard                                                          [Page 4]


